


After clicking start:
Your home base is randomly set to one of the designated starting spots. You cannot be too close to another player's home base.



Plans:
- central tiles have more valuable resources

- Your first base is a home base and has a 'palace' which must be protected. If the palace tile is destroyed, you're out
and the person who killed you gets the base, but the palace remains destroyed.
all other bases have a headquarters which, if destroyed, destroys the base (and the person who destroyed it gets the base ???)





Laurie's ideas (optional):
- every hex has a building. if you want empty hexes to exist, you simply create a new type of building that does nothing,
allowing for new 'empty' hexes to be added to a base.
every hex on a base has an hp. once that hp reaches 0, the hex is reverted back to an unclaimed tile,
unless that hex is surrounded by base hexes with the same owner, then all buildings on that hex are destroyed
    
- 'wall' tile does not exist. visually, there is a wall on the edges of the outer hexes on the base, but functionally they do nothing.
you can demolish buildings and get some of the resources back.
    
- each building has an 'action'. When activated, it takes a certain amount of time to complete. e.g, a mine may take 5 seconds
to produce one iron. Some actions are automatic, e.g a mine produces one iron every 5 seconds without having to be activated,
but a barracks may need to be told what troop to produce. Some actions have a cost, e.g a barracks may require 5 iron to
make a certain troop.
    
- Palace tile produces some of each resource
Bases with a palace (home bases) have a small % reduction in the time taken to complete the action (the workers have a
moral boost when working so close to their king/queen).

- Biomes: areas on the board which specialise in a certain resource or have certain attributes. e.g a grassland biome may be
filled with more hexes with grassy terrain, and have a boost to food production (if such a resource exists).
the biome positions are randomised at the start of each game. Maybe prevent certain biomes from being next to one another
if there are balancing issues.



BJ's notes:

- expansion?
how does one expand a base? do they have to buy an adjacent, empty tile next to them?
or do they directly buy a building on an adjacent tile?
is there a limit? what about different types of terrain? can they buy a mountain tile?


- buildings

should buildings have an upkeep cost; every minute they'll cost something?

population? calculate pop based on housing? require pop for upgrading HQ & palace?
HQ & palace can't be built, they come with the base automatically.

palace is for unlocking troops/buildings across all bases, (only one palace exists per person, on their home base)
headquarters is for the maximum level of buildings in that base, as well as how many of each building
if palace is destroyed then the player is kicked out, even if they have other bases (too unfair?)
if HQ is defeated but palace remains, the player loses that base but not kicked out (unless they don't have any other bases)
the base itself, until the player is defeated (either by taking all of their other bases, or by destroying the palace),
can't be taken by another player.
the player can regain their home base if the palace still exists by sending some troops there from another base and paying to rebuild the HQ


have a look at types/building and also data/buildings


if you want to do some stuff, you could do a similar thing to what ive done with buildings, but with troops?
ie go to types/troops and make a template (interface) for what info a troop should store, then go onto the metadata stuff 
- don't forget to include a category that determines if a troop is infantry, land vehicle, etc
make attack speed/damage be optional because maybe not all troops will be able to attack
(ie spy, transport vehicle, infiltration, vehicles that create fog of war, etc)



- base

some bases already exist at certain locations, but aren't owned (maybe 'overrun with barbarians')
if a player successfully attacks a base (either owned and unowned) and destroys the HQ,
they can send in troops (maybe a special troop for this - settlers/founders/etc) and rebuild the HQ
(could pay for this, or the cost is represented by producing the special troop), then they get the base, along with all buildings that weren't destroyed
if they destroy the palace, the target player is kicked out, and that base reverts to an ordinary base. 

if we're doing it like this, then maybe all non home base have a special perk to encourage more strategy
ie one base could be called "Mines of Moria" and its always near a mountain range.
some troops produced in this base gain the benefit of "Mithril" which increases base health?
if so, do we define these buffs in resource file or what?
also bases would all have predefined names?
ie every game, there's always a "Mines of Moria"?
player can pick what their home base is called?

possibly one of the parks is a special troop category, eg air?
actually, yes this may be a good idea to implement air troops as they're too strong to be in a normal base
but, to reduce too much power being in certain bases,
a base can have a special building that produces air troops, but only one troop type, ie

base "Rebel Alliance" has a special building (only one!) called 'Hangar' and it can produce an air troop called "X-Wing Starfighter"
base "Northern Air Temple" has 'Sanctuary' which can produce 'Glider" which is a scouting troop (cant attack), and "Hot Air Balloon", which can't attack air troops, and is slow
to limit people from unlocking these troops too early, the buildings (eg hangar and Sanctuary) has to be rebuilt (plus upgraded for hot air balloon) which costs a LOT

in the ui, over a base is their name and underneath says "Owned by ..." or "<Player>'s Home Base" if its a home base ?


- resources
unique/rare resources?


- troops
can a troop get a buff or debuff? maybe from nearby buildings/troops or terrain that they're on (eg forest = slow)
air troops? naval? what buildings for those? or a special base eg helibase?

can troops group together like in civilization?
but maybe some troops cant?

i think having infantry is a good idea.
but should we have both infantry and land vehicles?
like start with infantry then as you level up, unlock some vehicles too.

vehicles would of course be far more expensive, and use up energy resource as they move and shoot,
while infantry is cheap and uses up food (which is more easily obtained)?

infantry advantages: infantry could hide better? maybe they can walk through forests (and hide), but vehicles can't?
vehicle advantages: speed. this is a major thing; anybody can deploy a car and it zooms off to the other side of the map,
while infantry will take ages to arrive there. this means if someone only has infantry, and someone else has just unlocked vehicles,
combat could go haywire. its harder to send backup troops if they're infantry because they'll take ages to arrive.
same for retreating, cars can catch up easily.
player with vehicles can also just make and send them over to intercept any infantry going to another base or whatever,
while infantry player struggles with defence as infantry takes ages to travel between bases

solution: very high resource cost and time to make vehicles compared to infantry (ie require iron as opposed to food),
and let one of the first vehicles unlocked be a transport vehicle - like a ship in civilization; it can carry infantry
this vehicle needs to also be cheap and quick to build compared to other vehicles?
thoughts?



- tech:
civilization and similar games have a tech tree. is this a good idea? if so, what techs should we have?
instead of the palace or HQ (or maybe just entirely scrap the whole palace idea and only have HQs) unlocking troops/buildings,
a tech tree could do it too. this would give more strategy to the game by making people think about not just resources and war but also science
would have to have a new building too - some kind of lab or university for producing science or whatever.
science would be a resource that you spend in the tech tree? or each science building researches something you pick and it takes some time to complete?





LATER:
to think about later:

- account:
an account has perks on it, and has a list of unlocked troops/buildings maybe? (like btd6, the troops but also the card things that give permanent upgrades)